The world is full of problems. Some of these can be solved through the use of technology. Other problems can't be solved directly through the use of technology, but the deployment of technologies can impact social enviroments and social interactions in a way so that the problems not solvable directly though technology can be addressed.
Low-resource languages suffer from one of the problems of the second type. That is there is a sociological problem that follows breifly in the following way:
Feelgood, and dogood linguists often want to help "low-resourced" language community have digital tools in their language. This scenario is mirrorred by the a different senario, which may be contrasted with people "helping" from the outside. That is,people from within the low-resource langauge want to create tools for using their language - often in written form - in digital contexts.
The result is that there are often a set of persons who are project managers, or who hold the business strings (access to grant funding, and are responsible for contracting with technologists to impelement the project ideas and goals).
The problem that occurs is that the more project managers there are (which might be more than one per language - with over 7,000 languages) the more divergent the technological solutions which are expensive and often not compatable or extenible - even if they are "open sourced".
Problem we are trying to solve is the communication problem between the plethroa of coders, (cowboy soloists, to dedicated shops working on language software), and the growing number of visionary project managers, who might have a background in linguistics, but do not have one in technology or in technology project management.
